Urban Tech Vision Statement
Urban Tech is an online store that allows regular people to find and purchase phones, tablets, computers, wearables, accessories, and software products on-demand from anywhere. Like traditional ecommerce platforms, it will contain hundreds of products listed with their price, specifications, review score, and image.
Urban Tech is primarily designed for use by regular consumers looking to buy tech products. It therefore adheres to certain standards found elsewhere in the ecommerce industry. It provides functionality for novice users by providing a simple, intuitive interface, while experienced users benefit from useful shortcuts. Urban Tech also caters to “power users” who are looking to buy technology in bulk.
Urban Tech permits customers to search explicitly for a product by using a search bar, while also providing less targeted search by allowing users to filter products by category or price. For example, if a user was looking for a new smartphone, but did not know which model they wanted, they could go to the “smartphone” category and browse available models. Otherwise, if a user already knows they want the “iPhone 14”, they can look it up directly using the search bar.
Customers will also be able to scroll through the homepage of the app to see popular items, featured items and items on sale. When a user specifies a category of product, e.g., “Laptops,” They will be able to filter the resulting items by popularity, price, and review score. This should contribute to the efficiency of Urban Tech by allowing customers to easily view, compare and purchase desired items. Customers can create their own account to save information, shipping address, payment methods, track orders, check their order history and get specific help.
Urban tech will also have other traditional ecommerce functions like a “Cart” and “Checkout” system where customers will have the opportunity to review their purchase. Urban tech will have an additional feature during the checkout process recommending items that are frequently purchased with the items in the customer’s cart. This should help prevent customers from buying a smartphone without a charging cable, for instance. Users will also be given an option to use multiple payment methods.
“Power users” who are looking to buy technology in bulk can specify the quantity of an item they would like to purchase, and Urban Tech will automatically provide a discount if the quantity exceeds a specified threshold. Thus, Urban Tech should be of particular benefit to large customers (like businesses), who otherwise would have to order directly through a manufacturer to receive discounts.
Urban Tech is envisioned as a mobile application, but it will be extensible so that future releases can have a web-based interface.
Urban tech will be considered successful if the website scores 80% or more on an industry standard consumer satisfaction survey (CSAT) that is calculated based on the scores and reviews given by the customers. Urban Tech as a platform will also be considered a success if it is profitable (makes more money than it losses) and has at least one thousand weekly users.
